now I initially read the name of this
product as
mao1 but fortunately that wasn't right
it's the mobile internet audio device 01
from moondrop and has absolutely nothing
to do with assisted suicide this is
rather the first mobile phone from
moondrop who is best known for their
chaii audio products and more recently
keyboards and wow it's not particularly
heavy and boy it's got like a camera
camera a camera like hanger hook almost
that is really something I think I see
what they were going for it's kind of
like those first generation OLED TVs
where they had the super super thin
advertised specs but then they just had
like a giant Caboose at the bottom oh
it's really not that comfortable to hold
though look at that profile it's like
sharp in the spots that you hold it
where it's thin I feel like I'm coming
across really negative we're going to
take a closer look at this in a minute
first what else have we got in here ooh
accessories 3ft braided charging cable
and that's it God it's amazing what crap
qualifies as accessories these days
charging cable that's not an accessory
that's the bare minimum let's do a quick
physical tour we've got a 64 megapixel
main camera 8 megapixel wide camera and
a 32 megapixel selfie camera that Moon
drop themselves describes as it's not
good but it works is that serious they
actually said that okay on the left
we've got a whole lot of nothing on the
bottom we've got our micro SD slot yeah
we've got a USB charging port that does
support USB 3 5 GB per second speeds and
fast charging in fact we managed to get
to a 36% charge in just 15 minutes and a
full charge in just a hair over an hour
on the right we've got our lock button
volume rocker where is my fingerprint
sensor oh it's UND screen well hope hope
it's a good one JK it's kind of mid it
works about 80% of the time first try
none of which is probably compelling you
guys to drop everything and order this
phone but worry not for I have something
to show you on the top we've got a
regular 3 and2 mm audio jack and what's
this a 4.4 mm balanced audio jack that's
right my friends true to their Heritage
moondrop has focused this device on
being well a phone yes but also
recognizing that most people are not
going to carry around an additional MP3
player on top of their phone an
excellent MP3 player if only I could get
it to turn on right now is this thing
charged well looks like someone might
have turned this on before they put it
in the box after lab testing so while we
charge our phone why don't we charge our
sponsor LG thanks to LG for sponsoring
this video upgrade your home
entertainment experience with LG's OLED
TVs they have a variety of series that
will fit your needs and your budget from
the more wallet friendly mid-range B
series to the absolutely baller Z series
so whether you're a gamer that needs
Ultra fast response time or a cinema
Enthusiast who's looking for crystal
clear picture quality LG's OLED TVs are
there to provide the depth detail high
resolution and high dynamic range that
you crave check them out today using our
Link in the video description it's
96% why was this refusing to turn on
that's so weird what is up with this
wall wallpaper why is there a school
child on my phone look I try not to be
judgy about this stuff but like what the
that is a child kind of an interesting
skin the phone's running Android 13
before we poke at that too much though I
want to talk about the material that the
shell is made of here it's
p we think they mean
polycarbonate but we have no way of
knowing for sure okay cool so the screen
one of the highlights and also low light
of the device it's 2460 x 1080 in
resolution it's OLED it'll run at either
60 or 120 HZ or it'll auto switch
between the two and it was pretty
accurate out of the box right yes uses
highfrequency dimming to avoid any
Flicker and unfortunately that's about
all that I can say about it it only hit
460 nits in SDR and that's even with
auto brightness enabled which on many
other phones allows the display to boost
making it more usable outside and in HDR
man we got some weird Behavior to the
point where we couldn't even really
measure the accuracy properly because we
couldn't trust our results watch this on
YouTube I'm going to fire up an HDR
video here
what that is not even close and this is
a phone from 6 years ago now obviously
this Hardware is better so whatever's
going on here has to be in the software
what is this color maybe the audio
experience is so good that I won't care
how my HDR video
looks nope of course Moon drop never
said that the speakers were particularly
good why don't we actually plug in a
pair of headphones look I got to be
honest with you I've never been able to
tell the difference between a balanced
output and a regular output did anyone
else notice that this thing went from
90% battery to 42% while I've been
sitting here it just dropped to 41 it
just shut down I think there's something
wrong with it okay well that's good to
know because when we did our battery
endurance test we only got what was it
about 12 hours out of this thing which
is very low compared to other devices so
obviously it's lasting a lot less than
12 hours right now but it could be that
it was in the middle of experiencing
some kind of failure unfortunately our
collaborators headphones.com were busy
and we weren't able to get this tested
by them maybe they'll test it in the
future though we'd be happy to send this
over to them in the meantime the lab's
initial impressions of the deck are that
it's about on par with a desktop deck
that you could get in the 50 to $100
range but I haven't heard it for myself
yet so all it remains is for me to
listen to some music by default because
this is like a Chinese Android 13
install none of the Google Play store or
Google Play Services things were
installed so we had to S load everything
including Basics like Spotify onto this
phone in order to get it to do anything
so if you are in a Google region um just
something that you might want to be
aware of now we did manage to get 5G
connectivity working but we don't have a
full list of bands from Moon drop yet if
we get it by the time we publish this
video we're going to put it up on screen
right now but in the meantime Gary has
hacks sored it so I should be able to
just install whatever I want I'm going
to go with apple music this is a this is
a audio file phone from the year 2024
this is not a motherboard from
1998 why am I hearing interactions with
the screen through my headphones watch
watch watch watch watch watch watch
watch huh you hear it so when I press
the first one and then the second one
here's what I think though okay one of
the major selling points of this phone
is that they are bypassing the Android
audio subsystem so it's possible that
whatever it is they're doing in order to
do that involves like like some some
switching time and so the first time
that it needs to make a noise it might
get a little confus mulated it's not a
gamebreaking problem but it's irritating
the good news is that it's not what I
thought it's not just you know
electronic noise being passed through to
the headphone jack like we used to see
on Old motherboards okay I'm sorry I
swear I'm going to actually listen to
this thing at some point all right guys
give me give me something to listen
to God airpods suck you know like they
really do suck don't they why do I
accept it was this really that bad you
know the issue for me isn't even the
wire the issue for me is not wanting to
carry around the USBC to 3 and 1 half mm
dongle and not being willing to
compromise on the phone that has the 3
and 1 12 mm Jack because this sounds
great compared to what you're probably
carrying around in your pocket right now
but this phone really sucks I wish I
could say that the price makes up for it
or that it has it's a Flagship killer
it's got a super high-end s so or
whatever but it doesn't it's got a
mediatech chipset that's about
equivalent to a Snapdragon 6 gen 1 and
it's coming in at $400 which yeah is
more of a budget oriented phone price
especially when you consider that as a
feat your phone it has something to kind
of compel you to at least consider it
but when you compare that to something
like the nothing phone 2A for $50 less
than
this that's tough to recommend buy a
nothing phone 2A and buy a nice USBC
Dack yeah I'm getting the nod from Gary
from the lab with that said we haven't
tried the 4.4mm balanced output yet
although I have to confess whether it's
because I'm Tin eared or not trained
enough I have yet on the same DAC and
headphone combination to notice a big
difference going from a regular output
to a balanced output I'm sorry I
uh I just can't imagine myself needing
my phone to drive these like if I'm if
I'm wearing something that comes off my
head that easily when I'm moving I'm
stationary
boys obviously this is apples to oranges
but if you went the full moon drop
setup you'd be having a pretty good time
when you're listening to music and a
pretty rotten time the rest of the time
gaming it falls behind the nothing phone
2A um not by a 10 you can play genin
impact on low 60 FPS or low plus rather
it's competitive with that phone RAM and
storage wise though it has 12 gigs of
lpddr 4X oh
4X o 256 gigs of uh ufs 3.1 storage
and I guess now's the time for us to
look at the cameras that even Moon drop
wasn't willing to talk up by the way I
think this charging indicator kind of
confirms my hypothesis that it was just
a battery calibration issue that it got
a little bit confused about so our
battery tests may be accurate in spite
of the 5,000 mAh battery the battery
life on this thing is not great let's go
ahead and fire up the camera wow this is
the worst camera I have seen in years my
friends and like I'm not talking that
it's low resolution or whatever sure
yeah 64 megapixel sensor so there's some
sharpness there but then they took that
sharpness and they added a sharpening
filter to it and then they added a
second sharpening filter to it and then
they boosted the Vibrance look at this
green next to this
green that's supposed to be the same
green what are you even talking about so
let's put it this way I'm always happy
to see new entrance in the market and
I'm always happy to see companies that
are trying to differentiate their
product in a meaningful way and having a
decent onboard deck on a phone is
something I think a lot of people are
asking for and the audio experience
itself the isolation from the Android
audio subsystem that stuff is a really
good start but it's clear that they
still have some work to do with respect
to the ergonomics and with respect to
the software experience and building a
more rounded experience because on the
one hand you guys have a compelling
sales pitch here this is the one device
that you have to carry in order to
combine your phone functions and your
mp3 player functions and you've got this
side going pretty good but if I had one
of these I'd probably still feel like I
needed to carry a phone subscribe to
Short Circuit